allas checks and updates (#2165)
CSCfi/csc-user-guide: docs/data/Allas/using_allas/rclone.md

# Using Allas with Rclone 

> This chapter contains instructions for using Allas with [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) in the Puhti and Mahti computing environments. _Rclone_ provides a very powerful and versatile way to use Allas and other object storage services. It is able to use both the S3 and Swift protocols (and many others). At the moment Swift protocol is the default option on the CSC servers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter contains instructions for using Allas with [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) in the Puhti and Mahti computing environments. _Rclone_ provides a very powerful and versatile way to use Allas and other object storage services. It is able to use both the S3 and Swift protocols (and many others). At the moment, the Swift protocol is the default option on the CSC servers. 
```

module load allas
allas-conf
```
The `allas-conf` command asks for your CSC password (University/Haka password will not work here). It lists
your projects in Allas and asks you to define the project that will be used. Then _allas-conf_ generates a Rclone configuration file for the Allas service and authenticates the connection to the selected project. In Rclone command this swift based connection is referred with remote name `allas:`. The authentication information is stored in the shell variables `OS_AUTH_TOKEN` and `OS_STORAGE_URL` that are valid for up to eight hours. However, you can refresh the authentication at any time by running _allas-conf_ again. The environment variables are available only for that login session, so if you login to Puhti in another session, you need to authenticate again to access Allas.

### Rclone with S3 on CSC supercomputers

> If you want to use Allas with S3 protocol in stead run the allas-conf command with option --mode s3cmd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use Allas with the S3 protocol instead, run the allas-conf command with the `--mode S3` option.
```

Reviewer: Since the example below was changed from `s3cmd` to `S3`.

Author: Good

The _copy_ and _move_ subcommands only work with files. If you would like to copy all files in a directory, use the _copyto_ or _moveto_ subcommands.

> During upload files that are larger than 5 GB will be split and stored as several objects. This is done automatically to a bucket that is named by adding extension `_segments` to the original bucket name. For example, if you would upload a large file to  _2000620-raw-data_ the actual data would be stored as several pieces into bucket _2000620-raw-data_segments_. The target bucket (_2000620-raw-data_) would contain just a manifest object that contains information what segments make the stored file. Operations performed to the manifest object are automatically reflected to the segments. Normally users don't need to operate with the segments buckets at all and objects inside these buckets should not be deleted or modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During upload, files that are larger than 5 GB will be split and stored as several objects. The objects are stored automatically in a distinct bucket called `<bucket-name>_segments`. For example, if you would upload a large file to  `2000620-raw-data`, the actual data would be stored in several pieces in the bucket `2000620-raw-data_segments`. The target bucket (`2000620-raw-data`) would contain just a manifest object stating which segments comprise the stored file. Operations performed on the manifest object are automatically reflected in the segments. Normally users don't need to operate with the segments buckets at all, and objects inside these buckets should not be deleted or modified.
```
